# Sales Order 

* What is a Sales Order for Distributor? 
* What are the Sales order used for?
* How to prepare a Sales order?
* The importance of a Sales order?
* Difference between a Sales order and a purchase order?

`Available for review`

# What is a Sales Order for Distributor? 

1.A sales order is a document generated by the seller specifying the details about the product or services ordered by the customer. 
2.Along with the product and service details, sales order consists of price, quantity, terms, and conditions etc.
3.The Sales Order, sometimes abbreviated as SO.Businesses use it as a confirmation document that is sent to the customers before delivery of goods or service.
4.Once the Sales Order is created, Inventory manager has to check, what needs to be delivered/shipped and when it should be delivered.


# What are the Sales Order used for?

1.Businesses use it as a confirmation document that is sent to the customers before delivery of goods or service.


# How to prepare a Sales Order?
1.Before business automation, salespersons were visiting from customer to customer to take sales orders manually. Now days we can take sales orders by telephonic or by any digital means, 
later which is going to be processed in DMS.


# The importance of a Sales Order?

1.A sales order gives you information on your inventory. Whether the products are in stock, 
if not how many are on backorder. This allows your purchasing department to make educated forecasts and purchase from your vendor.
The billing department refers to the sales orders to verify related details and the authenticity of the sale and then generate invoices.


# Difference between a Sales Order and a Purchase Order?

1.The buyer sends a purchase order to the seller detailing the products to be purchased, quantity, price, 
PO number, delivery and payment terms and shipping address.The seller creates a sales order upon receipt of the purchase order.


## Events at Front End

**Customer listing**

1.Load Customers, based on Customer active and status configured for allowing transactions.
2.If Beat and Salesman not mapped then system must not allow for selecting customer to proceed with order taking
3.Incase of new customer, then user has to use Create Customer option to register / create new customer and proceed for order taking

**Transaction Series**

1.System will load default transaction series, if required user can change and proceed the sales Order.

**Listing of SKU's**

1. If any SKU's Tax or Price not mapped then those SKUs cannot be selected for proceed for order taking, if relevant configuration is disabled then system allow to proceed further.
2. System should alert if same item is selected multiple time on that same order. 
3. System must group the SKU's based on SKU code and price details.

**Applying Price & Discounts**

1. In case of Special Price defined for that SKU and customer combination then that price will apply irrespective of batch info price.
2. In case of selected SKU's is enabled to apply Latest Price then system will consider - Special Price or Base Price Master Price details.
3. If above 2 conditions are not applicable then by default batch info price details are apply. 
4. Apart from the Price applying logic user can reset the price details  based on the configurations enabled. System would allow to edit -> Rate, Net Rate, Net Amount fields.
5. System should apply the Scheme discounts and / Cash discounts on selected price and arrive the net rate to apply the Taxes.

## Events at Business logic layer (overview)
- Providing the front end access control based on user profile to create a Sales order
- Generate record reference number for record creation Internal reference. Every request should have this reference to process, manipulate the Transaction data

**User access**
    1. Login user should has association with a Distributor. 
    2.In case of user associated with multiple user, then distributor selection is require before creating Sales Order transaction 
    3.User with profile access configurations are to be applied while Listing Sales Order Create, Modify, View Sales Order

    > Refer User profile, Distributor User, Corporate User Distributor mapping , Distributor Customer mapping , Customer product mapping,Product pricing mapping,customer scheme mapping

**List view of Sales Order**
    1. Listing page is default landing page, where newly created Sales Order are listed with selected information.
    2.All listing page related features are to be available for Sales Order listing Page. 
    3.Retrieve recently created top `20` Sales Order document with selected field where it belongs to a Distributor and sort with Order date. Default filter for Sales Order applicable for all users. 
    4.Custom filter to be available for all modules
    5.Default list view fields for distributor users  

       In default list view of users associated with multiple Distributors, 
       add `Distributor Name` fields. 

  > Refer [Listing page](Listing Page) functionalities, [Custom Filter](Custom Filter).

**Detail view actions**

    1. Detail view of Order record enables you to perform actions like editing, cancel, amend, print the existing record in PDF format, all actions are configured through [Workflow](Workflow). 
    2. From the Order list view, select the desired record. Details view of Order record should follow the Field access rule for the login user related profile. 

**Create Sales Order**

    1. Allow creation of Sales Order based on Profile access configuration. 
    2. User Distributor association is mandatory for creating transaction. 
    3. Corporate User are indirect users create transaction related to specific associated distributor. 
    4. Creation of Sales Order should be restricted to user without distributor association. 

**Customer Selection**

    1. Listing of Customer

**Rate calculation**

    1. **Sale Price** is shown in any of the following ways.
    - PTR value stored in Batch
    - Special price defined for the customer channel and GST registration status. 
    - When Bill at latest price is enabled for the item in the item master then latest Base Price is always considered until Special price is  defined for the item. 
    - User can override the rate based on settings

    2. **UOM** can be selected as **Base UOM**, **UOM 1**, **UOM 2** ...,**UOM 7**
    - For this sample, Base UOM, UOM 1 & UOM 2 are only considered. 

    - **Sample Product UOM conversion & Rate** _Product Atta 2 KG_
 
| UOM Type | UOM | Conversion Factor | Batch Rate | Special Price | Base Price |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | 
| Base UOM | KG | 1 | 44.41 | 40 | 44.60 |
| UOM 1 | CFC | 30 | 1332.30 | 1200 | 1338 |
| UOM 2 | PAC | 2 | 88.82 | 80 | 89.2 |

3. **Tax**
    - **Sample Product Tax** _Product Atta 2 KG_

| Tax Component  | Tax %  |
|----------------|--------|
| SGST           | 2.50%  |
| CGST           | 2.50%  |

**Delete the Sales order**

If Distributor  has to be blocked for sales or Deactivation from the system , there should be provision for the user to validate the pending Outstanding bills and remind the sales team on the same and do the deactivation of the Distributor

### Sales order upload process (Controlled Mechanism)
There should be an provison to upload the sales order from third party system through Integration 

## Flow of Related Events 


Flow of related Events Chart

graph TB
  subgraph "Report Update Process"
  NodeReport[Update Report Data]
  end


# Precondition for Creating a Sales Order

## 1. Before creating a Sales Order, you need to 
* Create [Geography Hierarchy](Geography Hierarchy)
* Create [State](State) 
* Create [City](City) 
* Create [Area](Area)
* Create [Tax](Tax Master) & [Channel Hierarchy](Channel Hierarchy)
* Create [Payment Mode](Payment Mode) 
* Create [Type of Services]
* Create [Distributor Type]
* Create [Credit Limit]


## 2.Fill in the required mandated  fields on the Sales order Transaction page as necessary.


